In this lecture we will learn about tables and HMO HVM allows us to create tables in order to display
data.
We can do so by using the table tag let's say at an opening and closing table tag to create our table
to create a row for our table.
We use the TR tag.
Let's add an opening and closing TR tag to our table.
We can add cells to our table by using the tag the content between the opening and closing tags is the
data that populates the cell.
Let's add a cell of data to our newly created table row.
We can add multiple cells next to one another by adding more 2D elements inside of the same TR element.
At this point let's jump to the web browser and run our code to see our table so far
as you can see our table currently has one row with three cells.
Let's jump back to the editor and build on this example.
We can also add another row underneath the first row that will have its own cells underneath the cells
we just created.
Once we have added this new row to our table in the code we will go back to the browser and run our
team file to see our updated table
as you can see our table now has a second row.
Now we will go back to the editor the th tag allows us to add a heading to a cell in our table.
Let's create another row at the top of our table and add 3 th elements.
One table header for each column in our table.
Recall that rows are horizontal in a table and columns are vertical.
Once we have done this we will run our code in the browser and should see the headings added to our
table by default the table header elements are displayed in bold and centered in the cell layer.
And let's jump back to the editor.
HDMI also allows us to add captions to our table in the case of NHT mail table a caption is displayed
at the top right above the table.
We can add a caption to our table by using the caption tag to see the caption added to our table.
Let's go back to the web browser and run our code.
Let's go back to the editor.
Sometimes we want to sell on our table to take up multiple columns or rows.
We can use the Colosseum attribute to make data in our cell take up more than one column.
We can use the rows and attribute to make data in our cell take up more than one row the number of rows
or columns that the data will take up depends on the number value that we assign the attribute.
If we specify a row span of two the data will take up two rows.
If we specify a row span of three the data will take up three rows etc..
Let's go to the web browser and run the code
next.
Let's go back to the editor remove the rose and beat that we just added and instead add a column span
attribute.
Let's run this code in the browser.
Let's go back to the editor
optionally we can use the t had t body and t foot tags to wrap the table header table body and table
footer respectively using these tags as a few benefits.
First it makes it easier to have a style applied to the header.
All of the body elements and footer second browsers will treat these tags in a special way.
If any of the content needs to be scrollable due to its size the browser will allow each of these areas
to be scrolled independently.
In other words users will be able to scroll the header and footer independently of the table body.
Let's see an example of using these tags on our table example from before.
First remove that colspan attribute that we added in the last example.
Then let's say that the head opening tag before a row of table headings and then a closing tee had tag.
Now if we use a style tag and specify a style of our table header for example a background color of
grey you will notice that the style applies to all of the elements we surrounded with the t had tag.
Let's jump to the web browser and see the result of the code we just typed
then we will go back to the editor next.
Let's wrap our table body in a t body tag.
We will put an opening to the body tag after the closing had tag and we will put a closing Tebbutt e-tag
after our last closing TR tag.
Now we can go to our style element and specify a style to apply to the table body for example a text
color of blue.
We will go back to the browser and run this code to see the result.
Let's go back to the editor.
Let's add another row of information in our table to be the FOTR.
Finally we will wrap this content in a t foot opening and closing tag we can add a style to the T foot
element as well.
For example if we want to make our footer text italic now we will go to the web browser and write our
code as you can see our table now has the footer we specified and it is displayed in italics in the
next lecture.
We will learn about layouts and HMO.